Starting with tvOS 11.2,
Apple TV 4K can automatically
switch video display modes
to match the native frame rate
and dynamic range
of video content.
The Video and Audio section
of the Settings app
allows the matching frame rate
and dynamic range behavior
to be set independently,
and enables viewing of content
it its original frame rate
and dynamic range.
By default,
these options are disabled.
When enabled,
and video content is played back
in a compatible app,
tvOS will automatically switch
the video display settings
to match that of the content.
For instance, if the content
is in 24 frames per second
and standard dynamic range,
the device will switch
from its system mode
to 24 frame per second,
standard dynamic range mode.
Once the media playback session
is over,
the device will then switch back
to its system mode.
The first step in supporting
frame rate matching
for your content is to ensure
that your HLS master playlists
are fully annotated
with the native frame rate
of the variants
using the FRAME-RATE attribute.
If a playlist does not include
the FRAME-RATE attribute,
frame rate mode switching
will not be supported
for that asset.
Furthermore, only playlists
that declare
either a single frame rate
for all variants
or only have frame rates
that are integer multiples
of the smallest frame rate
are supported.
For example, 29.97 and 59.94.
Dynamic range mode matching
does not typically require
any changes to your playlists,
as content is assumed
to be SDR
unless the VIDEO-RANGE attribute
specifies otherwise,
as all non-SDR content
must include the VIDEO-RANGE
attribute already.
Apps that use
AVPlayerViewController
will automatically support
mode matching,
unless the appliesPreferred
DisplayCriteriaAutomatically
property is changed to false.
When content is played back
in full screen
using AVPlayerViewController,
tvOS will automatically switch
to the appropriate display mode
for that content.
Then, when
AVPlayerViewController
leaves full-screen mode
or is dismissed,
tvOS will switch back
to its system display mode.
For apps that play back
full-screen content
using AVPlayerViewController
or TVMLKit,
no additional work is required.
However, for other scenarios
where your video
might not always be played back
in full screen,
if you are playing
multiple videos simultaneously,
switching between different
short videos frequently,
or you aren't using
AVPlayerViewController
for your video playback,
you may need to directly specify
the AVDisplayManager
preferredDisplayCriteria
to ensure that the mode switch
occurs at the right time
and reflects the characteristics
of the appropriate
media content.
If you are using
AVPlayerViewController
and wish to opt out of
mode switching entirely
or need to manage
the display mode manually,
begin by setting
the appliesPreferredDisplay
CriteriaAutomatically property
of AVPlayerViewController
to false.
This will disable the automatic
AVKit matching behavior.
Then, to trigger tvOS
to switch modes
to match a specific piece
of content,
retrieve the AVDisplayCriteria
object vended by
the preferredDisplayCriteria
property of the AVAsset.
Assign that
AVDisplayCriteria object
to the preferredDisplayCriteria
property
of the AVDisplayManager vended
by the key UIWindow.
The mode switch will occur
upon setting this property,
assuming that matching
was enabled in settings
and that the attached device
supports the preferred mode.
You should perform this switch
before assigning
the AVPlayerItem
to the AVPlayer object
so that AVPlayer
configures itself
based on the targeted
display mode.
To switch back
to the system's default mode,
simply set
the preferredDisplayCriteria
property to nil.
To know when the mode switch
begins and ends,
you can key-value observe
the displayModeSwitchInProgress
property
of the AVDisplayManager object.
To help you determine
the best way
to make use of this new feature
in your media application,
here are some guidelines
to keep in mind:
Switch modes only as often
as necessary.
All televisions respond to mode
switching a little differently,
but it will generally cause
the screen to flash
or temporarily black out,
and may take a few seconds
to complete.
This can be disruptive
if it occurs more often
than necessary.
Typically, mode switching
is only appropriate
for full-screen playback.
Matching frame rate
and dynamic range for content
that plays in the background,
as a thumbnail,
or as an interstitial
as part of a game,
can be quite disruptive
and is generally unnecessary.
The primary user interface
of your app,
outside of the video viewing
experience,
should be run
in the system's frame rate
so that UI and animations
are smooth and fluid.
When the television
is in a lower frame rate mode,
those animations and movements
will also render
at that frame rate,
and may appear less smooth
as a result.
There are also
several circumstances
where leaving the device
in its system mode
will yield an improved
user experience.
If your app plays shorter clips,
displays multiple video tiles
simultaneously,
or frequently switches
between content
with disparate characteristics,
it would be preferred
to avoid mode switching entirely
to ensure the viewing experience
is not disrupted unnecessarily.
tvOS 11.2 enables
video content frame rate
and dynamic range matching
on Apple TV 4K.
AVPlayerViewController
can manage this behavior
automatically,
but some apps will want
more control
by utilizing AVDisplayManager
and AVDisplayCriteria.
Please visit developer.apple.com
for more information.